is 2039 and the earth has become
overpopulated and all nations must
annually cut their populations by five
percent the united states implements the
rule called thinning in the thinning the
students must attend a standardized test
every year in the test whoever fails is
executed
however the thinning scoring system was
rigged the officials manipulated the
results to pass whoever they want
usually the children of rich parents
in the end the foul play of the scoring
system was exposed by a student named
lena
blake reading the son of texas governor
dean reading failed the thinning test he
and the others who failed the test were
to be executed
however unknown to the public they were
instead sent to an underground slave
labor facility to manufacture goods like
phones and electronics for a company
called assuru global this way the
company profits off cheap labor
it is now the following day of the
thinning blake and the other students
who had failed are brought to the
underground facility
there they watch a video of a lady
explaining that they are the chosen ones
who get a second chance at life
the place is called an incubator and is
designed by ashuru they have been
brought here to work for the company
lastly she reveals that the most
productive member of the incubator
program gets reintroduced to society
the people happily celebrate being alive
the system then tells them to go to
their respective assignment room
a teaching device has been inserted in
all of their necks an automated voice
explains to them their tasks and
routines they will have to work for 14
hours a day before they get one hour of
dining and personal time they will also
get curfews in which they have to go to
their assigned beds and rest while
watching the videos blake notices his
long-lost girlfriend ellie in a clip
blake goes looking for her and the two
finally meet blake cannot believe that
she is alive
ally tells him to meet her in an hour
when they have a curfew the two meet at
the living unit and have sex
later that night blake is talking to his
friend heather when a siren starts
ringing in the facility one of the
workers is trying to commit suicide
because he doesn't want to work anymore
a group of boys from below encourage the
boy to jump cage is the leader of a
group the boy eventually jumps but the
guards lay the nets right before and
save him it turns out that anyone who
refuses to work is sent to an infirmary
where they are injected with some kind
of drug to docile them cage then comes
to meet blake at his living unit he
tells him that ellie is his girlfriend
now and he should stay away from her the
following day at the cafeteria ellie
sits alone at a table when cage
approaches and kisses her ellie seems
uncomfortable the whole time
heather and blake watch the event unfold
from their table but cannot do anything
cage and his team are called the worthy
they are hand selected by the incubator
to supervise other workers
after the group leaves the table blake
approaches ellie frightened for his
safety she asked him to go away just
then cage's men approach blake and tell
him to leave ellie alone blake fights
the men but soon cage intervenes and
overpowers blake
ellie and blake managed to run away from
the cafeteria but they are then caught
by mason king the ex-supervisor of the
thinning exam who has been relocated to
the incubator after the thinning scandal
after catching him mason twists blake's
leg and breaks it
back in the town of texas everyone is at
blake's memorial service as blake is
presumed dead by the public after he
failed the test many reporters try to
interview his father governor dean as he
exits the premises
laina has been on the press's radar
after she successfully exposed the foul
play of the thinning scoring system
the reporters try to interview her but
she dismisses them the thinning fraud
incident has caused a huge dent in
dean's reputation
he managed to blame the foul scoring
system on mason king the exam supervisor
but the dpc has appointed a private
investigator named agent joanne morris
to investigate the incident
agent joanne visits lena at her home the
following day
however lena doesn't provide her with
any important information so joanne
gives laina her card and leaves
just then a man knocks on her door
it is a security guard named jack who
has come to invite laina to meet dean
later we see laina at dean's he reveals
that he wants her help in his campaign
for the presidential election
she strictly denies the job and leaves
on her way she meets ashuru global ceo
georgina preston ashuru global helps
dean financially in his election
campaigns hence dean and georgina work
together closely georgina vaguely tells
laina that she should consider the job
for her siblings corinne and joey she
tries bribing her saying that her
siblings don't have to appear for the
thinning test if she works for them but
she still refuses as jack drives them
back he goes further than laina's home
when she points it out some kind of gas
begins to fill the car and makes lana
and her siblings unconscious
laina wakes up in a deserted
construction site with jack and a few
others standing in front of her karin's
elementary school teacher ms cole is
there too
it turns out that jack and miss cole
work for an organization called the
fight which is against the thinning
system if dean is elected as the
president the thinning will never end so
they need laina's help to work as their
spy they want her to take the job dean
just provided lena agrees
laina's best friend kellan gets a job as
an intern in the tv news company with a
news reporter named wendy banks
that day kellen is doing his research on
the after process of fining he realizes
that no one handles the dead bodies
after execution at night he goes to
leinas and asks her to join him at the
cemetery the two go there and dig up
blake's grave and are surprised to find
his coffin empty
cut to eight months later
it is two weeks until the election date
dean has been campaigning for the
elections and laina continues working in
his support she has also been constantly
providing miss cole with all the
information she could gather
that day they meet at a construction
site again
laina is furious at being made to
support dean redding's ideas
she accuses them of doing nothing they
promise to miss cold calms are down and
tells her that they now know that all
the necessary information is in
georgina's computer
they provide her with a device to access
her computer lana has to now figure out
a way to get to georgina's computer
undetected
meanwhile blake and the others have been
working in the incubator for the past
eight months too blake's leg has still
not healed
he limps when he walks
he has not been able to communicate with
ellie either that night cage and his
group come into blake's living area
while he is asleep
they gag him and hit his leg repeatedly
as he whimpers in pain
the following day he goes to dr
langley's clinic and tells her that he
fell in the shower when he comes back he
tells heather to inform ellie to be at
cage's boxing match the next day
meanwhile kellen manages to crack the
secret of the labor camps saying issuru
global doesn't have a manufacturing area
on their campus and they have been
insourcing military rations from a
company called tx pack being able to
serve food to 100 000 people per year
however his boss wendy dismisses him
saying that without a photo or video
evidence they cannot publish the story
when he gets in his car that day a
masked man from the back seat tries to
suffocate him he somehow manages to free
himself and flees to lena's house
he knows that someone from ashuru is
always listening so he informs lena of
his revelations by writing in a notebook
it is now the day of the election
lena drops her siblings off at miss
coles and leaves for the assurus
building where dean and his supporters
patiently wait for the election results
sometime later lena goes to the restroom
where a security guard escorts her
meanwhile at the incubator blake is at
one of cage's matches when he presents
himself to fight cage the whole crowd
watching the match goes silent blake
wants to be the leader of the group if
he wins
cage agrees to the challenge they then
fight even though blake's leg is injured
he overpowers cage the crowd starts
chanting blake's name
after an intense fight blake wins
meanwhile ellie is in her bed and isn't
moving when the guards come near her she
attacks them determined to get out of
the facility
the guards eventually restrain her and
take her to the infirmary for her
punishment
after his win blake gathers cage's group
and tells them that none of the students
from the thinning are killed they are
brought down for cheap labor he also
reveals that the reintroduction to
society is a lie and they will be stuck
there forever
after a lot of convincing the group
finally agrees to work together to fight
the system blake and one of the guys go
to get ellie while others go to the
cafeteria
later on the other hand jumps out of the
bathroom's window and somehow manages to
reach georgina's office
there she uses the hard drive that miss
cole gave her to gain access to the
computer
she finds out all the camera footage
from the incubator and is beyond
surprised and delighted to see that
blake is alive
she quickly transfers all the
information to the hard drive
however while she is in the office
georgina is about to come in
jack stalls her saying that dean wants
to meet her urgently till then laina
takes the hard drive and gets back to
the restroom however after being caught
in a lie jack is restrained by the
guards
laina then quickly calls agent joanne
morris who had been appointed to
investigate the thinnings case
at the incubator blake deliberately
hurts himself to be taken to the clinic
where ellie is
there he and a friend get rid of a guard
and stop the doctors from injecting
ellie with a drug the two then take out
the tracking device in their necks and
flee
in the cafeteria cage and a guy start a
fight as their plan to stole the guards
soon all the other workers join creating
chaos
mason gets to know this and goes to the
cafeteria with other guards he is
furious and checks blake's tracking
device to see he is in the clinic
meanwhile laina and joanne needed a
terrace laina gives her the hard drive
and tells her everything she knows about
ashuru but it turns out that joanne 2 is
corrupt and works for assure she then
holds lena at gunpoint lena somehow
defends herself and manages to run away
with a hard drive
she goes to kellen who makes a copy of
the file to take it to wendy to
broadcast it lena stays at his house for
her safety however as kellen starts his
car it explodes killing him
joanne and some men come looking for
elena she sets up a trap and runs out
through the back door
the guards fall into the trap creating
an explosion
however joanne comes out unharmed she
attacks lena again but this time lena
pushes her off the stairs killing her
meanwhile jake and ellie dress up as the
nurses and run through the basement of
the incubator mason follows them behind
the two find a ladder reaching the top
of the tunnel and climb up eventually
getting out of it they celebrate happily
and are about to run when mason reaches
there and attacks them
elsewhere at the ashuru building the
election results come out in the favor
of dean
everyone celebrates happily he is now
the new president of the united states
meanwhile lana finally reaches the bnc
news center and shows when he banks the
proof
they quickly rush to the opening of the
incubator in a chopper they broadcast
mason fighting blake
dean sees the broadcast and is beyond
surprised to see his son still alive
still he gives his first presidential
speech
dean's pa tells georgina that there is
no way around this scandal now
however georgina has a plan
she arrests everyone who ever talked
against reading and plans to end
democracy once and for all
blake and laina finally reunite and kiss
they stop when lena sees ellie behind
blake just then they too are arrested
for speaking against the thinning test
as the police drive them they get into
an accident but thankfully are not
injured
suddenly jake comes to them and frees
them jack tells them that they will
defeat reading and georgina and take
things back to normal the movie ends
abruptly hinting at the third sequel
[Music]
you